docs/features/looking-glass.md, before:

# Looking Glass

IXP Manager supports full looking glass features when using the Bird BGP daemon and [Bird's Eye](https://github.com/inex/birdseye) *(a simple secure micro service for querying Bird)*.

A fully working example of this can be seen [here on INEX's IXP Manager](https://www.inex.ie/ixp/lg).

Enabling the looking glass just requires:

1. properly configured [router(s)](routers.md).
2. *Bird's Eye* installed on these.
3. the API endpoint must be accessible from the server running IXP Manager and this endpoint must be set correctly in the router's configuration (see [router(s)](routers.md) page) (along with an appropriate setting for *LG Access Privileges*). Note that the Birdseye API end points do not need to be publicly accessible - just from the IXP Manager server.
4. set the `.env` option: `IXP_FE_FRONTEND_DISABLED_LOOKING_GLASS=false` (in IXP Manager's `.env` and add it if it's missing as it defaults to `true`).


## Example Router Configuration

See this screenshot for an appropriately configured INEX router with Bird's Eye:

![Router Configuration for LG](img/lg-router-conf.png)

## Looking Glass 'Pass Thru' API Calls

Depending on the configured *LG Access Privileges* for a given router, **IXP Manager** will pass thru the following API calls to the router API.

* `https://ixp.example.com/api/v4/lg/{handle}/status`
* `https://ixp.example.com/api/v4/lg/{handle}/bgp-summary`

and return the JSON result.

The rationale for this is that we expect most IX's to keep direct access to looking glass implementations on internal / private networks.

Here are two live examples from INEX:

1. https://www.inex.ie/ixp/api/v4/lg/rc1-cork-ipv4/status
2. https://www.inex.ie/ixp/api/v4/lg/rc1-cork-ipv4/bgp-summary

You can see all of [INEX](https://www.inex.ie/)'s looking glasses at [https://www.inex.ie/ixp/lg](https://www.inex.ie/ixp/lg).
[GRNET](https://grnet.gr/en/) have also a public IXP Manager integration at: [https://portal.gr-ix.gr/lg](https://portal.gr-ix.gr/lg).

## Debugging

Generally speaking, if you carefully read the above and the [Bird's Eye README file](https://github.com/inex/birdseye/blob/master/README.md), you should be able to get IXP Manager / Bird's Eye integration working.

If you do not, try all of the following and solve any elements that fail. If you still have issues, email the [IXP Manager mailing list](https://www.inex.ie/mailman/listinfo/ixpmanager) **with the output of all of the following commands from both sections**.

For the following examples, we will use a real INEX example router with these settings:

```
mysql> SELECT * FROM routers WHERE id = 17\G
*************************** 1. row ***************************
          id: 17
     vlan_id: 2
      handle: as112-lan1-ipv4
    protocol: 4
        type: 3
        name: INEX LAN1 - AS112 - IPv4
   shortname: AS112 - LAN1 - IPv4
   router_id: 185.6.36.6
  peering_ip: 185.6.36.6
         asn: 112
    software: 1
   mgmt_host: 10.39.5.6
         api: http://as112-lan1-ipv4.mgmt.inex.ie/api
    api_type: 1
   lg_access: 0
  quarantine: 0
      bgp_lc: 0
    template: api/v4/router/as112/bird/standard
    skip_md5: 1
last_updated: 2018-02-03 14:26:15
```

From the server running IXP Manager:


```
###############################################################################
# Does the API hostname resolve?
$ dig +short as112-lan1-ipv4.mgmt.inex.ie

10.39.5.6


###############################################################################
# Is there network access?
$ ping as112-lan1-ipv4.mgmt.inex.ie -c 1

PING as112.mgmt.inex.ie (10.39.5.6) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from as112.mgmt.inex.ie (10.39.5.6): icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=0.103 ms

--- as112.mgmt.inex.ie ping statistics ---
1 packets transmitted, 1 received, 0% packet loss, time 0ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 0.103/0.103/0.103/0.000 ms


###############################################################################
# Is the Bird's Eye service available?
$ curl -v http://as112-lan1-ipv4.mgmt.inex.ie/api/status

*   Trying 10.39.5.6...
* Connected to as112-lan1-ipv4.mgmt.inex.ie (10.39.5.6) port 80 (#0)
> GET /api/status HTTP/1.1
> Host: as112-lan1-ipv4.mgmt.inex.ie
> User-Agent: curl/7.47.0
> Accept: */*
>
< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
< Cache-Control: no-cache
< Content-Type: application/json
< Date: Mon, 12 Feb 2018 16:29:52 GMT
< Transfer-Encoding: chunked
< Server: lighttpd/1.4.35
<
* Connection #0 to host as112-lan1-ipv4.mgmt.inex.ie left intact

{
    "api": {
        "from_cache":true,
        "ttl_mins":1,
        "version":"1.1.0",
        "max_routes":1000
    },
    "status": {
        "version":"1.6.3",
        "router_id":"185.6.36.6",
        "server_time":"2018-02-12T16:29:48+00:00",
        "last_reboot":"2017-11-09T00:23:24+00:00",
        "last_reconfig":"2018-02-12T16:26:14+00:00",
        "message":"Daemon is up and running"
    }
}
```


If all of the above checks out, watch the log file while you try and access the looking glass:

```sh
cd $IXPROOT
tail -f storage/log/laravel.log
```

If there are error messages in the above log as you try and access the looking glass, include them when emailing the mailing list for help.


Then on the router (the server running Bird's Eye), you need to provide the following answers when seeking help:

```
###############################################################################
# Is Bird actually running and what are the names of its sockets:
$ ls -la /var/run/bird

total 0
drwxrwxr-x  2 bird bird 120 Nov  9 00:26 .
drwxr-xr-x 25 root root 900 Feb 12 19:40 ..
srw-rw----  1 root root   0 Nov  9 00:23 bird-as112-lan1-ipv4.ctl
srw-rw----  1 root root   0 Nov  9 00:23 bird-as112-lan1-ipv6.ctl
srw-rw----  1 root root   0 Nov  9 00:23 bird-as112-lan2-ipv4.ctl
srw-rw----  1 root root   0 Nov  9 00:23 bird-as112-lan2-ipv6.ctl

###############################################################################
# What configuration file(s) exist:
$ ls -la /srv/birdseye/*env

-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 2833 Dec  5  2016 /srv/birdseye/birdseye-as112-lan1-ipv4.env
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 2833 Dec  5  2016 /srv/birdseye/birdseye-as112-lan1-ipv6.env
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 2833 Dec  5  2016 /srv/birdseye/birdseye-as112-lan2-ipv4.env
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 2833 Dec  5  2016 /srv/birdseye/birdseye-as112-lan2-ipv6.env

###############################################################################
# Let's see the contents of these:
$ cat /srv/birdseye/*env | egrep -v '(^#)|(^\s*$)'

BIRDC="/usr/bin/sudo /srv/birdseye/bin/birdc -4 -s /var/run/bird/bird-as112-lan1-ipv4.ctl"
CACHE_DRIVER=file
LOOKING_GLASS_ENABLED=true
BIRDC="/usr/bin/sudo /srv/birdseye/bin/birdc -6 -s /var/run/bird/bird-as112-lan1-ipv6.ctl"
CACHE_DRIVER=file
LOOKING_GLASS_ENABLED=true
BIRDC="/usr/bin/sudo /srv/birdseye/bin/birdc -4 -s /var/run/bird/bird-as112-lan2-ipv4.ctl"
CACHE_DRIVER=file
LOOKING_GLASS_ENABLED=true
BIRDC="/usr/bin/sudo /srv/birdseye/bin/birdc -6 -s /var/run/bird/bird-as112-lan2-ipv6.ctl"
CACHE_DRIVER=file
LOOKING_GLASS_ENABLED=true

###############################################################################
# Test birdc access to the daemon - run for each socket found above:
# (only one shown here for brevity - include all in your request for help!)
$ /usr/sbin/birdc -s /var/run/bird/bird-as112-lan1-ipv4.ctl show status

BIRD 1.6.3 ready.
BIRD 1.6.3
Router ID is 185.6.36.6
Current server time is 2018-02-12 19:42:42
Last reboot on 2017-11-09 00:23:25
Last reconfiguration on 2018-02-12 19:26:15
Daemon is up and running

###############################################################################
# Have you created the sudo file for www-data to be able to access Birdc?
$ cat /etc/sudoers /etc/sudoers.d/* | grep birdseye

www-data        ALL=(ALL)       NOPASSWD: /srv/birdseye/bin/birdc

###############################################################################
# Does the Bird's Eye client work?
# Run for each socket found above with the appropriate protocol (-4/-6):
# (only one shown here for brevity - include all in your request for help!)

$ /srv/birdseye/bin/birdc -4 -s /var/run/bird/bird-as112-lan1-ipv4.ctl show status

BIRD 1.6.3 ready.
Access restricted
BIRD 1.6.3
Router ID is 185.6.36.6
Current server time is 2018-02-12 19:44:31
Last reboot on 2017-11-09 00:23:25
Last reconfiguration on 2018-02-12 19:26:15
Daemon is up and running


###############################################################################
# Is the web server running:
$ netstat -lpn | grep lighttpd

tcp        0      0 10.39.5.6:80            0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      1165/lighttpd
tcp6       0      0 2001:7f8:18:5::6:80     :::*                    LISTEN      1165/lighttpd
unix  2      [ ACC ]     STREAM     LISTENING     13970    635/php-cgi         /var/run/lighttpd/php.socket-0

###############################################################################
# Is PHP running:
$ netstat -lpn | grep php

unix  2      [ ACC ]     STREAM     LISTENING     13970    635/php-cgi         /var/run/lighttpd/php.socket-0

###############################################################################
# what's the web server configuration
# NB: make sure you have compared it to:
#   https://github.com/inex/birdseye/blob/master/data/configs/lighttpd.conf
$ cat /etc/lighttpd/lighttpd.conf

<not included but linked two lines up>

###############################################################################
# provide the IXP Manager configuration of your router(s):
mysql> SELECT * FROM routers\G

<not included - see example at start of this section>
```

Commit message:

Make it clearer where to install BirdsEye

docs/features/looking-glass.md, after:

# Looking Glass

IXP Manager supports full looking glass features when using the Bird BGP daemon and [Bird's Eye](https://github.com/inex/birdseye) *(a simple secure micro service for querying Bird)*.

A fully working example of this can be seen [here on INEX's IXP Manager](https://www.inex.ie/ixp/lg).

Enabling the looking glass just requires:

1. properly configured [router(s)](routers.md).
2. for routers that Bird and where you want them to be available via a looking glass, install [Bird's Eye](https://github.com/inex/birdseye) on the same server(s) running Bird.
3. the API endpoint must be accessible from the server running IXP Manager and this endpoint must be set correctly in the router's configuration (see [router(s)](routers.md) page) (along with an appropriate setting for *LG Access Privileges*). Note that the Birdseye API end points do not need to be publicly accessible - just from the IXP Manager server.
4. set the `.env` option: `IXP_FE_FRONTEND_DISABLED_LOOKING_GLASS=false` (in IXP Manager's `.env` and add it if it's missing as it defaults to `true`).


## Example Router Configuration

See this screenshot for an appropriately configured INEX router with Bird's Eye:

![Router Configuration for LG](img/lg-router-conf.png)

## Looking Glass 'Pass Thru' API Calls

Depending on the configured *LG Access Privileges* for a given router, **IXP Manager** will pass thru the following API calls to the router API.

* `https://ixp.example.com/api/v4/lg/{handle}/status`
* `https://ixp.example.com/api/v4/lg/{handle}/bgp-summary`

and return the JSON result.

The rationale for this is that we expect most IX's to keep direct access to looking glass implementations on internal / private networks.

Here are two live examples from INEX:

1. https://www.inex.ie/ixp/api/v4/lg/rc1-cork-ipv4/status
2. https://www.inex.ie/ixp/api/v4/lg/rc1-cork-ipv4/bgp-summary

You can see all of [INEX](https://www.inex.ie/)'s looking glasses at [https://www.inex.ie/ixp/lg](https://www.inex.ie/ixp/lg).
[GRNET](https://grnet.gr/en/) have also a public IXP Manager integration at: [https://portal.gr-ix.gr/lg](https://portal.gr-ix.gr/lg).

## Debugging

Generally speaking, if you carefully read the above and the [Bird's Eye README file](https://github.com/inex/birdseye/blob/master/README.md), you should be able to get IXP Manager / Bird's Eye integration working.

If you do not, try all of the following and solve any elements that fail. If you still have issues, email the [IXP Manager mailing list](https://www.inex.ie/mailman/listinfo/ixpmanager) **with the output of all of the following commands from both sections**.

For the following examples, we will use a real INEX example router with these settings:

```
mysql> SELECT * FROM routers WHERE id = 17\G
*************************** 1. row ***************************
          id: 17
     vlan_id: 2
      handle: as112-lan1-ipv4
    protocol: 4
        type: 3
        name: INEX LAN1 - AS112 - IPv4
   shortname: AS112 - LAN1 - IPv4
   router_id: 185.6.36.6
  peering_ip: 185.6.36.6
         asn: 112
    software: 1
   mgmt_host: 10.39.5.6
         api: http://as112-lan1-ipv4.mgmt.inex.ie/api
    api_type: 1
   lg_access: 0
  quarantine: 0
      bgp_lc: 0
    template: api/v4/router/as112/bird/standard
    skip_md5: 1
last_updated: 2018-02-03 14:26:15
```

From the server running IXP Manager:


```
###############################################################################
# Does the API hostname resolve?
$ dig +short as112-lan1-ipv4.mgmt.inex.ie

10.39.5.6


###############################################################################
# Is there network access?
$ ping as112-lan1-ipv4.mgmt.inex.ie -c 1

PING as112.mgmt.inex.ie (10.39.5.6) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from as112.mgmt.inex.ie (10.39.5.6): icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=0.103 ms

--- as112.mgmt.inex.ie ping statistics ---
1 packets transmitted, 1 received, 0% packet loss, time 0ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 0.103/0.103/0.103/0.000 ms


###############################################################################
# Is the Bird's Eye service available?
$ curl -v http://as112-lan1-ipv4.mgmt.inex.ie/api/status

*   Trying 10.39.5.6...
* Connected to as112-lan1-ipv4.mgmt.inex.ie (10.39.5.6) port 80 (#0)
> GET /api/status HTTP/1.1
> Host: as112-lan1-ipv4.mgmt.inex.ie
> User-Agent: curl/7.47.0
> Accept: */*
>
< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
< Cache-Control: no-cache
< Content-Type: application/json
< Date: Mon, 12 Feb 2018 16:29:52 GMT
< Transfer-Encoding: chunked
< Server: lighttpd/1.4.35
<
* Connection #0 to host as112-lan1-ipv4.mgmt.inex.ie left intact

{
    "api": {
        "from_cache":true,
        "ttl_mins":1,
        "version":"1.1.0",
        "max_routes":1000
    },
    "status": {
        "version":"1.6.3",
        "router_id":"185.6.36.6",
        "server_time":"2018-02-12T16:29:48+00:00",
        "last_reboot":"2017-11-09T00:23:24+00:00",
        "last_reconfig":"2018-02-12T16:26:14+00:00",
        "message":"Daemon is up and running"
    }
}
```


If all of the above checks out, watch the log file while you try and access the looking glass:

```sh
cd $IXPROOT
tail -f storage/log/laravel.log
```

If there are error messages in the above log as you try and access the looking glass, include them when emailing the mailing list for help.


Then on the router (the server running Bird's Eye), you need to provide the following answers when seeking help:

```
###############################################################################
# Is Bird actually running and what are the names of its sockets:
$ ls -la /var/run/bird

total 0
drwxrwxr-x  2 bird bird 120 Nov  9 00:26 .
drwxr-xr-x 25 root root 900 Feb 12 19:40 ..
srw-rw----  1 root root   0 Nov  9 00:23 bird-as112-lan1-ipv4.ctl
srw-rw----  1 root root   0 Nov  9 00:23 bird-as112-lan1-ipv6.ctl
srw-rw----  1 root root   0 Nov  9 00:23 bird-as112-lan2-ipv4.ctl
srw-rw----  1 root root   0 Nov  9 00:23 bird-as112-lan2-ipv6.ctl

###############################################################################
# What configuration file(s) exist:
$ ls -la /srv/birdseye/*env

-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 2833 Dec  5  2016 /srv/birdseye/birdseye-as112-lan1-ipv4.env
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 2833 Dec  5  2016 /srv/birdseye/birdseye-as112-lan1-ipv6.env
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 2833 Dec  5  2016 /srv/birdseye/birdseye-as112-lan2-ipv4.env
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 2833 Dec  5  2016 /srv/birdseye/birdseye-as112-lan2-ipv6.env

###############################################################################
# Let's see the contents of these:
$ cat /srv/birdseye/*env | egrep -v '(^#)|(^\s*$)'

BIRDC="/usr/bin/sudo /srv/birdseye/bin/birdc -4 -s /var/run/bird/bird-as112-lan1-ipv4.ctl"
CACHE_DRIVER=file
LOOKING_GLASS_ENABLED=true
BIRDC="/usr/bin/sudo /srv/birdseye/bin/birdc -6 -s /var/run/bird/bird-as112-lan1-ipv6.ctl"
CACHE_DRIVER=file
LOOKING_GLASS_ENABLED=true
BIRDC="/usr/bin/sudo /srv/birdseye/bin/birdc -4 -s /var/run/bird/bird-as112-lan2-ipv4.ctl"
CACHE_DRIVER=file
LOOKING_GLASS_ENABLED=true
BIRDC="/usr/bin/sudo /srv/birdseye/bin/birdc -6 -s /var/run/bird/bird-as112-lan2-ipv6.ctl"
CACHE_DRIVER=file
LOOKING_GLASS_ENABLED=true

###############################################################################
# Test birdc access to the daemon - run for each socket found above:
# (only one shown here for brevity - include all in your request for help!)
$ /usr/sbin/birdc -s /var/run/bird/bird-as112-lan1-ipv4.ctl show status

BIRD 1.6.3 ready.
BIRD 1.6.3
Router ID is 185.6.36.6
Current server time is 2018-02-12 19:42:42
Last reboot on 2017-11-09 00:23:25
Last reconfiguration on 2018-02-12 19:26:15
Daemon is up and running

###############################################################################
# Have you created the sudo file for www-data to be able to access Birdc?
$ cat /etc/sudoers /etc/sudoers.d/* | grep birdseye

www-data        ALL=(ALL)       NOPASSWD: /srv/birdseye/bin/birdc

###############################################################################
# Does the Bird's Eye client work?
# Run for each socket found above with the appropriate protocol (-4/-6):
# (only one shown here for brevity - include all in your request for help!)

$ /srv/birdseye/bin/birdc -4 -s /var/run/bird/bird-as112-lan1-ipv4.ctl show status

BIRD 1.6.3 ready.
Access restricted
BIRD 1.6.3
Router ID is 185.6.36.6
Current server time is 2018-02-12 19:44:31
Last reboot on 2017-11-09 00:23:25
Last reconfiguration on 2018-02-12 19:26:15
Daemon is up and running


###############################################################################
# Is the web server running:
$ netstat -lpn | grep lighttpd

tcp        0      0 10.39.5.6:80            0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      1165/lighttpd
tcp6       0      0 2001:7f8:18:5::6:80     :::*                    LISTEN      1165/lighttpd
unix  2      [ ACC ]     STREAM     LISTENING     13970    635/php-cgi         /var/run/lighttpd/php.socket-0

###############################################################################
# Is PHP running:
$ netstat -lpn | grep php

unix  2      [ ACC ]     STREAM     LISTENING     13970    635/php-cgi         /var/run/lighttpd/php.socket-0

###############################################################################
# what's the web server configuration
# NB: make sure you have compared it to:
#   https://github.com/inex/birdseye/blob/master/data/configs/lighttpd.conf
$ cat /etc/lighttpd/lighttpd.conf

<not included but linked two lines up>

###############################################################################
# provide the IXP Manager configuration of your router(s):
mysql> SELECT * FROM routers\G

<not included - see example at start of this section>
```
