# Contributor License Agreement

Please see the [contributing instructions](https://github.com/inex/IXP-Manager?tab=contributing-ov-file#readme) for full details.

Third-party patches are welcomed for adding functionality and  fixing bugs. Before they can be accepted into the project, contributors must sign the below *Contributor License Agreement* (`gpg --clearsign inex-cla.txt`) and email it to `operations (at) inex (dot) ie`.


```
Individual Contributor License Agreement v1.1
=============================================

Internet Neutral Exchange Association Company Limited By Guarantee

This document clarifies the terms under which You, the person listed below,
may make Contributions — which may include without limitation, software, bug
fixes, configuration changes, documentation, or any other materials — to any
of the projects owned or managed by Internet Neutral Exchange Association
Company Limited By Guarantee, hereinafter known as "INEX".

Please complete the following information about You and the Contributions.
If You have questions about these terms, please contact us at
operations@inex.ie.

You accept and agree to the following terms and conditions for Your present
and future Contributions submitted to INEX.  Except for the license granted
herein to INEX, You reserve all right, title, and interest in and to Your
Contributions.

INEX projects (code, documentation, and any other materials) are released
under the terms of the GNU General Public License, v2.0.

You certify that:

(a) Your Contributions are created in whole or in part by You and You have
the right to submit it under the designated license; or

(b) Your Contributions are based upon previous work that, to the best of
your knowledge, is covered under an appropriate open source license and You
have the right under that license to submit that work with modifications,
whether created in whole or in part by You, under the designated license; or

(c) Your Contributions are provided directly to You by some other person who
certified (a) or (b) and You have not modified them.

(d) You understand and agree that INEX projects and Your Contributions are
public and that a record of the Contributions (including all metadata and
personal information You submit with them) is maintained indefinitely and
may be redistributed in a manner consistent with INEX's policies and/or the
requirements of the GNU General Public License v2.0 where they are relevant.

(e) You are granting Your Contributions to INEX under the terms of the GNU
General Public License v2.0.

Full Name:
Email Addresses:
Date:
```
