# Cookies

Cookies are small text files that websites place on your device as you are browsing. They are processed and stored by your web browser. Cookies can also generally be easily viewed and deleted. Each cookie is unique to your web browser and will usually contain information such as the cookie name, a unique identifier, and the website's host name or domain name.

**IXP Manager** uses a PHP web application framework called Laravel and it generates two encrypted cookies which are required to use the application: 

| Cookie Name | Purpose and Desciption | Classification | Lifetime |
|-------|--------|------|------|
| `laravel_session` | Session management - since HTTP driven applications are stateless, sessions provide a way to store information about the user across multiple requests. These cookies are encrypted by the server and the client browser only receives and stores the encrypted version. | Strictly Necessary | 120 minutes |
| `XSRF-TOKEN` | Cross-site request forgeries are a type of malicious exploit whereby unauthorized commands are performed on behalf of an authenticated user. Laravel stores the current CSRF token in an encrypted `XSRF-TOKEN` cookie that is included with each response generated by the framework.  | Strictly Necessary | 120 minutes |

A third cookie is generated if a user optionally invokes the *Remember Me* functionality during login / authentication:

| Cookie Name | Purpose and Desciption | Classification | Lifetime |
|-------|--------|------|------|
| `remember_web_xxx` | Session management cookie to facilitate longer sessions and multiple session functionality. These cookies are encypted by the server and only the encrypted version exists on the client side browser. These only contain a session ID. | Strictly Necessary and Opt In | 30 days |

IXP Manager does not generate any other cookies.


## Strictly Necessary cookies

Strictly Necessary cookies are essential for you to browse the website and use its features, such as accessing secure areas of the site. For example, these cookies let us recognise that you have an account and you have logged into that account. These necessary cookies also allow the portal to remember you and avoid having to log you in on each site visit, or to prevent cross-site scripting security issues.

IXP Manager uses only first-party strictly necessary cookies. IXP Manager does not use third-party cookies.



## Cookies and EU ePrivary and GDPR Law

As **IXP Manager** generates only *Strictly Necessary* cookies, it does not need to receive users' consent for the use of these cookies.


## Correctness and Disclaimer

This information is correct as of June 2023 for the IXP Manager application as distributed and unaltered from its official source code repository at [inex/IXP-Manager](https://github.com/inex/IXP-Manager). Some IXPs may install it on domains hosting other web sites / applications which may generate their own domain-scoped cookies.

The cookie lifetimes provided above are the defaults but are configurable.

